The Joe Rogan experience.
Is option for the possibility that one day we could conceivably create,
uh, some sort of an amazing simulation, but it hasn't been done yet.
And this is why it's become this topic of conversation is that there's some need
for concern, because this is extrapolate technology.
And you think about where it's going now and where it's headed.
There could conceivably be one day where this exists.
Should we consider this and deal with it now?
Well, so I would say that that would be highly unlikely in that if the third
say, if the first two are wrong, right, then there are many,
many more simulated ones than non simulated ones will be over the course of all
of history over the course of all the history has.
But so then the question is given that, uh, you know,
that by the end of time, that will have been,
let's say just a million simulations and one original history. Sure.
Um, and that all of the assimilated people and the original
history, people all have subjectively indistinguishable experiences,
you can from the inside to tell the difference. Right. Then what,
given that assumption, would it be rational for you to believe?
Should you think you are one of the exceptional ones?
Or should you think you are one amongst the largest sets the simulated ones?
Or.
Should you think that it just has not happened yet? Just because that would.
Be equivalent to saying that you would be one of the non simulated ones.
You you're talking about in the universe in yeah. But could, you could make.
It even just a, you could look at the narrow case of justice. Let's.
Just look in the narrow case of just the earth in the narrow case of just the
earth. If the historical record is accurate, if it's not a simulation,
then it seems very reasonable that we're just dealing with incremental increases
in technology. That's pretty stunning and pretty, pretty profound currently,
but that we haven't experienced a simulation yet. Isn't there, that's how.
It looks. Right. Sure. Yeah.
But that's also how it would look if you were in a simulation.
Yes. But it's also how it would look if you're not in a simulation yet,
that's also a possibility too, right?
Yeah. But for most people, um, who,
for whom it looks like that it would be the case that they would be simulated.
Why? Well, by assumption, if,
if they're all these simulations created.
Well, not yet. Well, right, but you don't know what time you don't.
Know what time it is in, in external reality.
Why we be assumed something so unbelievably fantastic.
When just life itself is preposterous to the life itself.
Just being a human being on a planet, you know,
this planet is spinning a thousand miles an hour hurling through infinity.
That in itself is fairly preposterous if it didn't exist,
but it does exist.
And we know that we at least were all agreeing upon a certain
historical record. We're agreeing upon Oppenheimer, the project world war one,
world war two, we're agreeing on Korea and Vietnam,
or we're agreeing on Reagan and Kennedy. We're agreeing on all these things.
Historically,
if we are all agreeing that there's this sort of historical
process and we were all agreeing. I remember when the first iPhone was invented.
I remember when the first computer, I remember when this,
I remember the internet,
why would we assume that there's a simulation?
We could assume that there's a possibility of a simulation,
but why would you assume that simulation hasn't occurred?
Why wouldn't we assume the simulation hasn't occurred yet?
Right? I mean, so it,
it is a possibility that we would be in the first time segments
off all of these. Like it's just more likely if we go outside say no, I mean,
it comes down then to this field, which is tricky,
probably biotic called anthropic.
So this is about how to assign probabilities in situations where you have
uncertainty about who we are, what time it is, where we are.
Um, so if you might have, for example,
all of these people who would exist in this scenario, uh,
having to place bets on whether they're assimilated or not.
And you think about two possible different ways of reasoning about this.
So one is,
you assume you are a randomly selected individual from all these individuals and
you bet accordingly randomly.
Selected individuals. So then you would.
Bet you're one of the simulated ones, because like randomly selected ones,
if most are assimilated, most lottery tickets, are.
We assuming that most are simulated? This is where I'm getting confused. Well,
because it will have been simulated by the end of time.
By the end of this is like a timeless claim.
I already, when it hasn't existed yet, like I'm, I'm like,
let's say for the sake of argument,
cause I don't really have an opinion on this pro or con I'm opening the air.
But if I was going to argue about pragmatic reality, the, the,
the practicality of biological existence has a person that has a finite
lifespan. You're born, you die. You're here right now.
And we're a part of this just long line of humanity.
That's created all these incredible things. It's led up to civilization.
That's led up to this moment right now where you and I are talking into these
microphones and it's being broadcast everywhere.
Why isn't it likely that assimilation hasn't occurred yet?
That we are in the process of innovating and one day could
potentially experience a simulation,
but why are you not factoring in the possibility or the probability that that
hasn't taken place?
Yeah, I mean, so it's in there,
but if you imagine that people follow this
general principle of assuming that they would be the ones
in the original history before the simulations had happened, right.
Then almost all of them would turn out to be wrong and they would lose their
bets once a simulation has actually, I mean, if, if,
if it kind of integrate over, you know, the university, there's no.
Evidence that a simulation has taken place, but there is evidence.
That you're alive. You have a mother you have, well, I.
Mean, those things could be true in the simulation as well. I mean, could be,
but isn't that a pipe dream? Well, it depends on what simulation, right.
Does that mean a lot of simulations might run for a long time and have a mantra.
Yeah. Yeah. But we.
Know that if someone shoots you you'll die. We know if you eat food,
you get full. We know these things, these things could be objective,
objective facts. These can be yes, right now.
Why would we assume? Why,
why would a simulation be the most likely scenario
when we've experienced?
At least we believe we've experienced all this innovation in our lifetime.
We see it moving towards a certain direction.
Why wouldn't we assume that that hasn't taken place yet?
Yeah, I think, um,
to try to argue for the premise that conditional on there being
first, an initial segment of non simulated Joe Rogan experiences,
and then a lot of other segments of simulated ones. Yes.
That conditional on that being the way the world in totality looks,
you should think you're one of the simulated ones. Why? Well, to argue for that,
I think then you need to roll in this piece of probability theory called
anthropics, which I alluded to.
And just to pull one little element out of there to kind of create some
initial possibility for this.
If you think in terms of rational betting strategies for this population
of Joe Rogan experiences,
the ones that would lead to the overall maximum amount of winning would be,
if you all thought you're probably one of the simulated segments. Um,
if you had the general reasoning rule that in this kind of situation,
you should think that you're the initial segment of the non simulated Rogan.
Then the great preponderance, um,
of these simulated experiences would lose star bets,
but there's no evidence.
Of a simulation.
Well,
I'd say that there is indirect evidence insofar as there is evidence
against these two alternatives.
Well, the two alternatives being that they do tell her,
so life goes extinct before they create any sort of simulation or that they
agreed to not create a simulation.
But what about if they're going to create a simulation,
there has to be a time before the simulation is created.
Why wouldn't you assume that that time is now currently happening when you've
got a historical record of all the innovation that's leading up to today?
If we understand? No, I mean.
So I think the historical record would be there in dissimulation, but there.
Would, it have to be there in a simulation and not be there in reality.
Well, I mean, it, it, it could be there in a simulation if it's a kind.
Of simulation tracks all. Yeah.
Um, if it's a fantasy simulation, then, you know, maybe it wouldn't be right,
but it could.
Just be reality. It doesn't have to be right.
I mean, sometimes it would be both, right. I mean,
that would be one Joe Rogan experience in their real or regional history.
And then like maybe a million that does say, uh,
in simulated realities later. But if you think about your actions,
that kind of can't distinguish between these different possible locations in
space time where you could be, most of the, um,
impact of your decisions will come from impacting all of these million
UroGen instances that existed in relationships, simulation.
Has been proven to exist, which it hasn't been. We, we,
we have at least in terms of what we all agree. We're,
we're proven to have biological lives. We breed, we sleep, we,
we eat, we, we travel on planes. And so those things.
Are true. Yeah. I mean, I'd say those are, uh, are true.
Probably even if we are in a simulation.
Would you assume we're in a simulate, this is where I'm stuck,
because why wouldn't you assume that a simulation is one day possible?
There's no proof or no evidence that makes any sense to me that there is
currently any simulation.
Right? I mean, so it's a matter of, uh, probabilities and the numbers games,
right? Is it, uh, that's.
Oh, sorry. That reality.
But what would point to the possibility that it's more probable that we were in
a simulation? This is what.
Wow. Okay. So I could mention some possibilities that would
the most obvious,
like might have a big window pops up in front of you saying you're in a
simulation.
Click here for more info, pretty conclusive.
Right? Yes. Right. So short of that, um,
you would have weaker probabilistic evidence insofar as you had evidence
against the two alternatives. So for example, if you,
if you got some evidence that suggested it was less likely that all
civilizations at our stage go extinct before maturity,
let's say we get our act together. We eliminate nuclear weapons. We, you know,
we become prudent and we check all the asteroids.
Nothing is some collision course where there are stuff that kind of tend to
lower the probability of the first. Right. Okay. Um,
so that would tend to shift probability over on the remaining alternatives,
but let's suppose that we moved closer ourselves to becoming posthuman.
We develop more advanced computers and VR,
and like we're getting close to this point ourselves.
And we still remain really interested in running ancestor.
Disseminations we think are,
this is what we really want to spend our resources on.
As soon as we can make it work,
that that would move probability over from the second alternative.
Like it's less likely that there is this strong convergence among all post human
technological immature civilizations.
If we ourselves are almost post-human and still have this interest in creating
ancestor simulations.
So that would shove probability over to the remaining alternative,
take the extreme case of this. Like it might only, if we, you know,
a thousand years from now have built our own planetary science computer that can
run these simulations and we are just about to switch it on and it will create
the simulation of precisely, uh, people like ourselves.
And as we move towards the big button to sort of initiate this,
like then the probability of the first two hypothesis basically
goes to zero, right?
And then we would have to conclude with near certainty that we are ourselves in
a simulation as we push this button to create a million simulations.
Once we achieved that state, but we have not achieved that state.
Why would we not assume that we are in the actual state that we currently
experience? Wait.
We shouldn't assume we should.
We should assume that we are ignorant as to which of these different, um,
time slices we are, which of these different, um,
Joe Rogan experiences is, is the present one.
Um, we, we just can't tell from the inside which one it is. Yeah. I mean,
if, if you had, if you could see like some objective clock and, uh,
and say that well, as, as yet,
the clock is so early that no simulations have happened,
then obviously you could conclude that during the original history.
But if we can see that clock outside the window,
if there isn't a window in the simulation to look out,
then it would look the same. And then I'd say, oh,
we have no way of telling which of these different instances we are.
And one of them might be that there is no simulation and that we're moving
towards that simulation. That one day it could be [inaudible]
, but in a million. So one in a million is that life is what experience right now.
One in a minute, I mean, conditional on the other, uh, I'll try to do speaking,
not on those other.
Alternatives being wrong. What's let's,
let's say that human beings haven't blown themselves up yet.
Let's say that human beings haven't come up with th th th there was no need to
make the decision to not activate the simulation because the simulation hasn't
been invented yet. Isn't that also a possibility,
is it also a possibility that the actual timeline of technological innovation
that we all agree on is real,
and that we're experiencing this as real live human beings,
not in a simulation that one day that simulation could potentially take place,
but has not yet. Isn't that also a possibility.
Yeah. Yeah. I mean, sure.
It's just a question of how probable that is given the, why.
Isn't it super probable cause we're experiencing.
It. Well, I mean, it would be a very unusual, uh,
situation for somebody with your experiences to be in.
What about your experiences for my experiences are the same, same there. Yeah.
It would be extremely unusual. There's 7 billion unusual experience.
[Inaudible] I think if there were, uh.
Like say a million simulations, right. Then, you know, that would be, um,
a million times more.
Would there be any simulations?
Why would there not just be 7 billion people experiencing.
Right. Yeah. That mean,
then that would have to be something that prevents these simulations from,
from being created. This is where you lose me. Yeah.
So I think maybe the differences, I tend to think in terms of, um,
the world as a forte,
four dimensional structure with time being one dimension. Right. Okay.
So you think in the totality of existence,
that will have happened by the end of time,
you'll look at all the different experiences that match your current
experience. Okay. Um,
given these various assumptions,
the vast majority of thoughts would be simulated.
Why? Well,
the various assumptions being that option one and two are false. Basically.
What.
About option? My option. Yeah. So in your option.
The vast majority of all these experiences that will ever have existed will also
be simulated. If I understand your no, no, no.
My assumption is that nothing's happened yet. Yeah. But they will have been.
Maybe, but not yet.
Right. But as I understand your option, this,
that if we look at the universe at the end of time and we'll look back,
that will be a lot of simulated versions of you. And then one.
Original one that you think you might be the original.
No, I'm not even considering that.
What I'm saying is we may just be
here that there is no simulation and that may be,
it will take place someday.
But maybe it will not. Right. But.
You have to, you have to sort of pick which of those versions you're,
which of those scenarios you are considering.
Is the,
that is the scenario I'm considering the scenario I'm considering is we are just
here we are, but what happens.
After like, so I want this Nora to say, what's happened in the past,
what happens now? And what will happen in the future.
Is going to happen in the future. Right. That's.
That's right. So we can consider both options, right? Yes.
One option where there are no simulations created later. Right.
Then I would say that means one of the first two alternatives.
The other option is there could be a simulation created later,
but it has not taken place yet that.
That will be similar to the state. It.
Is that it's a possibility, but it has not happened. Right.
But that, that will be later that's, that's one possibility. And so then I say,
if that's the world that we are looking at than
most, uh, experiences of your kind
exists inside the simulation.
I still, I don't understand that. Why can it not have happened?
Well, it kinda depends on which of these experiences is your
present moment in that scenario, so that that's gotta be a million of them.
Plus an initial one. You can't tell from the inside.
Be there will be a million of them, but there's right now,
no evidence that there's going to be no evidence,
that there is no evidence that it's ever even going to be possible.
Technologically. We think there could be, but it hasn't happened yet.
So why would you assume that we are in a simulation currently when there's no
evidence whatsoever that it's even possible to create a simulation.
Maybe various,
some alternative way of trying to explain.
How I think.
I'm thinking like, suppose I understand you're saying that there's some, sorry,
sorry, sorry.
I'm just thinking maybe we could think of some simpler thought experiment,
which has nothing to do with simulations and stuff. But, um,
imagine if, um, so I'm making this up as I go along as well.
We'll see if it actually works,
but you are taking into a room,
uh, and then you are awake there for one hour
and then a coin is tossed.
And if it lands heads,
then the experiment ends and you exit the room and everything is normal again.
But if it lands tails,
then you're given an amnesia drug and then you're woken up in the room. Again.
You think you're there for the first time because you don't remember having been
there before. Right. And then this is repeated 10 times.
So we have a world where either there is one,
one hour experience. If you're in the room or Alice,
it's a world where 10 Joe Rogan experiences in the room with an episode of
amnesia in between. Right.
But when you're in the room now and you find yourself in this room,
you're wondering, Hmm, is this the first time I'm in this room? Uh,
it could be, but it could also be that, um, later on, on,
I was just given an amnesia drug. Okay.
So the question now is when you wake up in this room,
you have to assign probabilities to these different places you could be in time
and be, have to bet or make some decision that depends on where you are.
Um, so, uh, what I,
I guess I could ask you, like, so let's say if you wake up in this room, what,
what, what do you think the probability should be? That the coin that, that,
that you're like at the time one versus at some later time?
Well,
what is the probability that I'm actually here versus what is the probability of
this highly unlikely scenario that I keep getting drugged over and over again?
Every hour. Okay. We assume that.
Like, in certain that,
that the setup is such that there was this mad scientist who had the means to do
this and he was gonna flip this coin. Right. So we assuming that's,
you're sure about that either way.
The only thing you're unsure about is how the coin.
Landed. Okay. Well,
if that was a scenario where I knew that there was a possibility of a mad
scientist and I could wake up over and over again,
that seems like a recipe for insanity.
Um, well, it's a philosophical thought experiment.
So it's a way we can obstruct away from my initially and I'll get back to it is
there's no evidence at all.
That we're in a simulation.
So why wouldn't we assume that the most likely scenario is taking place,
which is we are just existing and life is,
as it seems strange.
So, okay. So if, if you, if you don't want to do this thought experiment,
[inaudible].
Incredibly limited, right? I was just saying, well, I'm trying.
To distill the probability theory apart from
the wider simulation,
but I guess I could also ask you if,
if we were to move closer to disappoint where we ourselves can create
simulations. If we, if we survive,
we become a multi-planetary is we build planetary sized computers. Yeah. Um,
how would your probability in the simulation hypothesis change as we kind of
develop what.
Would change based on the evidence of some profound technological innovation
that actually would allow someone to create a simulation that's
indistinguishable from reality.
But I would rather assume that reality itself currently is
just that, because it seems to be isn't that Ockham's razor,
isn't that the simplest answer, this is reality. This is wood.
You are here. You actually are here one day. There may be a simulation.
It has not happened yet.
Yeah. I think it's not.
That comes razor in that it would require you to postulate that you are this
very unusual and special observer amongst all the observers that
will exist. But.
Why is that? But everyone is unusual in their own way. That's true,
but there's no, there's no clones. There's no one person,
that's a version that's living the same exact life in a million different
scenarios and.
Disrespect. Um,
if there are all these simulations than most of these people
are not special in this way, that most of them are simulator. Um,
and only at the finding of minority population, right.
Always have many simulations. If there's no simulation.
Then if there are no simulations and that we'll ever be in a simulation, Stan,
who's saying there never will.
Be well. So, so this, um, since,
since we don't know what time it is now
in external reality, right. Um,
and we're,
therefore can't tell from looking at our evidence where we are
in, in a world where either there is just an original history and then it ends,
or there is a world within the original history and then a lot of simulations.
Um, we need to think about how to assign probabilities,
given each of these two scenarios. Right. Um,
and so then we have a situation that is somewhat analogous to this one,
with the amnesia room where you have kind of some number of episodes.
And so the question is in those types of, uh, situations,
how do you allocate probability over the different hypothesis about how the
world is structured? And, um, this kind of bet thing,
argument is one type of argument that you can try to reduce to kind of get
some grip on that. And another is by looking at, um,
various applications in, in, in,
in cosmology and stuff where you have multiverse theories, um,
which say the university is very big. Maybe there are many other universities,
maybe there are a lot of observers,
maybe all possible observer success out there in different configuration. How,
how do you drive probabilistic predictions from that? Like,
it seems like whatever you observe would be observed by somebody.
So how could you test that kind of theory and this same kind of
anthropic reasoning that I want to use in the context of the simulation
argument, um, also plays a role, I think,
in driving observational predictions from these kinds of cosmological
theories where you need to assume something like you are most likely a
typical observer from amongst the observers that will ever have existed.
Um, so I would suggest, um, now I,
I should admit as an asterisk that this
field of anthropic reasoning is tricky and not fully settled yet,
and are things there that, um, we don't yet fully understand,
but still the particular application of anthropic reasoning that is relevant for
the simulation argument, I think is one of the relatively less problematic ones.
So that conditional on there being by the end of time,
a large number of simulated Joe Rogan's and only one original one,
I think conditional and that hypothesis,
it would seem that most of your probabilities should be on being one of the
simulated ones, but I'm not sure I have any other ways of,
I can understand.
What you're saying. I completely understand what you're saying,
but I don't know why you're not willing to take into account the possibility
that it hasn't occurred yet.
Yeah. So I mean,
the way I say it is that I have taken that into account and they received the
same probability that I'm, that initial segment,
as I would give to any of the other Nick Bostrom segments that all have the same
evidence. See, that's where.
We differ,
because I would give much more probability to the fact that we are existing
right now in the current state, as we experience it in real life,
carbon life, no simulation,
but that potentially one day there could be a simulation,
which leads us to look at the possibilities and look at the probabilities that
it's already occurred.
All right. So what about this? Suppose it is the case that,
all right.
So what we think happened is there was a big bang planets formed and done some
billions of year later, we evolved and here we are now. Right? Right.
Suppose some physicists told you that while the universe is very big and early
on in the universe, very, very rare acacias.
There wasn't a big gas cloud in an infinite universe.
This will happen somewhere, right. Where just by chance,
that was a kind of Joe Rogan,
like brain coming together for a minute and done dissolved in the gas. Right.
And yeah, if you haven't even a universe, it's gotta happen somewhere. It's, uh,
but that's gotta be a minimum in a fewer Joe Rogan brains in such
situations then we'll exist later on,
on planets because evolution helps funnel probability into these kinds
of organized structures. Right?
So if some physics told you that, well, this,
this is the structure of our part space time. Like there are like a few very,
very rare spontaneously materialized brains from gas clouds early in the
universe. And then there are the normal Rogan's is much later.
And now of course, many, many more normal ones,
the normal ones happen in one out of every, you know,
tend to the power of 50 planets. Whereas the, uh,
the weird ones happen in one out of 10 to the power versus weird house.
So how are you defining the normal ones are ones that have evolved on planet.
Sons had the mother and.
Different. Is that what you're talking about in different planets?
We only have one planet, right. And it's, it's.
Like a, well, I mean, actually there are a lot of planets in the universe.
That's gotta be a lot of couples, right. That has life.
Right. This is pure speculation.
Right. But this is a thought experiment. In fact, it actually probably is, uh,
matches reality in this respect.
Most likely there's some other planets out there. Well, there, I might not.
I think the fact that it matches relatives,
I think irrelevant to the point I want to make.
But so if this turned out to be the way the world works,
a few weird ones happening from gas clouds,
and then the vast majority are just normal people living on a planet.
Would you similar to say given that model, um,
that you should think, oh, I might just as well be one of these gas cloud ones,
because after all it, the other ones might not have happened yet.
What have I lost you? You lost me. Sorry. Yeah.
Um, anyway,
I think that this would be a structurally similar situation where there would be
a few exceptional early living versions.
Um, that, that would be very small in numbers compared to the later ones.
And if they allow themselves the same kind of reasoning where they would say,
well, the other ones may or may not come to exist later on planets. Um,
I have no reason to believe I'm one of the planet living ones.
Then it seems that in this model of the universe,
you should think you're one of these early gas cloud ones. And as I,
as I as said, I mean, this looks like it probably actually is
the, uh, the world we are living in, in,
in that it looks like it's infinite to bake.
And that would have been a few Joe Rogan's spontaneous degenerated,
very early from random processes.
They're going to be very few numbers compared to ones that have in our recent on
planets. Um,
so that by taking the path you want to take with relation to dissemination
argument,
I wonder if you would not be committed to thinking that you would be like in a
fact that Boltzmann brain in, in a gas cloud super early in the universe.
I still don't understand what you're saying.
What I'm saying is that we scientists agree if you
believe in science. And if you believe in the discoveries that so far,
people have all currently agreed to,
we have agreed that clouds are formed in that planets are
created. And then all the matter comes from inside of the explosions of a star.
And that it takes multiple times for this to coalesce before we can develop
carbon based life forms, all of that stuff science currently agrees on, right?
And then we believe in single cell organisms become multi-celled organisms
through random mutation and natural selection. We get evolution.
And then we agree that we have come to a point now where
technology has hit this gigantic spike that you described earlier.
So human beings have created all this new innovation.
Why wouldn't we assume that all this is actually taking place right now with
no simulation?
Uh, yeah. I mean, the simulation argument is this, the, the answer to that,
but with a qualification dab, a,
the simulation argument doesn't even purport to prove the simulation hypothesis
there. These alternatives be that even if the simulation hypothesis is true,
uh, in many versions of it, it would actually be the case that, uh,
in the simulation, all of these things have taken place. Um,
and the simulation might go back a long time and
it might be a reality tracking simulation.
Maybe these same things also happened before outside the simulation.
I understand that. Um, but,
or all these things have actually happened and there is no simulation yet.
Yep. That's possible too. Doesn't that seem really probable.
Well, I mean, to me, it seems probable only if, uh,
at least one of the other alternatives is true. Or when I,
I admit that there is also this general possibility, which is always there,
that I'm confused about some big thing. Like the,
maybe the simulation argument is wrong in some way. Like,
I'm just looking at the track record of science and philosophy we find were
sometimes wrong. So I attached some probability to that, but,
but if we're working within the parameters of what currently seems to me to be
the case, um, that would be the first,
um, civilization in a universe where there will later be many, many simulations,
um, seems, uh, yeah. On, on unlikely for those exact reasons.
And that if we are the first it's probably because one of the alternatives is
true.